Fine-tuning 

- We have model that has a specific purpose, trained on a dataset
from the dataset we get a distributed table of probabilities.

- When language models like chatgpt are trained, they look at a ton of text
and create embeddings for each text(token) which maps to a field of values
that approximate the given text(token) in relation to other words and in relation
to greater context. The context window can be changed eg the range of text we are 
looking at which in result can affect the value of each word.

- In general gpt is a decoder, it is continuously generating tokens based on previous
tokens, the tokens matter a lot and new tokens create new fields of probability.

- Generalised models like gpt can be fine-tuned and trained for a specific purpose.


Rank decomposition(rank factorisation)

- a way of breaking down a complex matrix into two smaller, simpler matrices that contain
the exact same information.
- for example, a giant matrix 100 x 100 with 10,000 elements. Within the 10,000 elements
a lot of data may be redundant. The RANK of a matrix tells us how much unique information is 
actually in it. For example if the rank of the 100 by 100 matrix is 2...

    through rank decomposition we can rewrite the 100 by 100 matrix by multiplying a 100 by 2
    matrix and a 2 by 100 matrix

    instead of dealing with 10,000 elements we would only need to deal with 400(200 + 200)

    the data has been compressed perfectly without losing a single bit of information.

- Why this is useful?

    this allows computers to store massive datasets using a fraction of the memory

    it is faster for a computer to work 2 smaller matrices than one giant matrix

    makes it easier to separate true unique data from data that has been repeated

    when we fine-tune an LLM we are calculating a matrix of updates or changes(eg change in weights)
    to the model's original knowledge
        - weight is the numerical value that controls how much influence an input has on the model's 
        output
        when an llm learns it fine-tunes billions of weights until it gets the answers right 

        - a reduction in the number of parameters updated as a result in breaking down the matrix
        means single consumer graphics cards can be used to fine-tune instead of a server cluster 
        costing millions of dollars

          